Young Noah : So it's not gonna be easy. It's going to be really hard; we're gonna have to work at this everyday, but I want to do that because I want you. I want all of you, forever, everyday. You and me... everyday.
Young Noah : [reading letter over scene]  My dearest Allie, I couldn't sleep last night because I know that it's over between us... I'm not bitter anymore because I know that what we had was real... And if in some distant place in the future we see each other in our new lives, I'll smile at you with joy, and remember how we spent a summer beneath the trees, learning from each other and growing in love.
[pauses] 
Young Noah : The best love is the kind that awakens the soul, and makes us reach for more, that, plants a fire in our hearts and brings peace to our minds. And that's what you've given me. That's what I hope to give to you forever. I love you. I'll be seeing you. Noah
[last 2 sentences read by Duke] 
Young Allie : Why didn't you write me? Why? It wasn't over for me, I waited for you for seven years. But now it's too late.
Young Noah : I wrote you 365 letters. I wrote you everyday for a year.
Young Allie : You wrote me?
Young Noah : Yes... it wasn't over, it still isn't over
[kisses Allie] 
Young Noah : It's not about following your heart and it's not about keeping your promises. It's about security.
Young Allie : What's that supposed to mean?
Young Noah : [yelling]  Money. He's got a lot of money!
Young Allie : You smug bastard. I hate you for saying that.
Young Noah : You're bored Allie. You're bored and you know it. You wouldn't be here if there wasn't something missing.
Young Allie : You arrogant son of a bitch.
Young Noah : Would you just stay with me?
Young Allie : Stay with you? What for? Look at us, we're already fightin'
Young Noah : Well that's what we do, we fight... You tell me when I am being an arrogant son of a bitch and I tell you when you are a pain in the ass. Which you are, 99% of the time. I'm not afraid to hurt your feelings. You have like a 2 second rebound rate, then you're back doing the next pain-in-the-ass thing.
Young Allie : So what?
Young Noah : So it's not gonna be easy. It's gonna be really hard. We're gonna have to work at this every day, but I want to do that because I want you. I want all of you, for ever, you and me, every day. Will you do something for me, please? Just picture your life for me? 30 years from now, 40 years from now? What's it look like? If it's with him, go. Go! I lost you once, I think I can do it again. If I thought that's what you really wanted. But don't you take the easy way out.
Young Allie : What easy way? There is no easy way, no matter what I do, somebody gets hurt.
Young Noah : Would you stop thinking about what everyone wants? Stop thinking about what I want, what he wants, what your parents want. What do YOU want? What do you WANT?
Young Allie : It's not that simple.
Young Noah : What... do... you... want? God damn it what do you want?
Young Allie : I have to go now.
Young Allie : Now, say you're a bird.
Young Noah : If you're a bird, I'm a bird.
Young Allie : [lying in the middle of the street]  What happens if a car comes?
Young Noah : We die.
Young Noah : We can just finish out the summer and see what happens then.
Young Allie : Please don't do this, you don't mean it. Oh why wait until the summer ends? Why don't you do it right now?
[pushes Noah against car] 
Young Allie : Huh? C'mon. Do it! Do it!
[repeatedly pushes Noah, starts hitting Noah, Noah starts hitting himself] 
Young Allie : You know what? I'm gonna do it! It's over. Okay? it's over.
Young Noah : [opens his arms for a hug]  Come here.
Young Allie : Don't touch me! I hate you! I hate you!
Young Noah : OK, I'm going.
Young Allie : Why don't you just go then?
[pushes Noah in the car] 
Young Allie : Get out! Leave!
[kicks Noah's car] 
Young Allie : Go!... No, no, just wait a minute, we're not really breaking up are we? Come on. This is just a fight we're having and tomorrow will be like it never happend right?
[Noah drives away] 
Martha Shaw : Look, a woman know when a man looks into her eyes and sees someone else.
Young Noah : Now you know that I want to give you all the things that you want, right? But I can't, because they're gone... They're broken.
Duke : They didn't agree on much. In fact they rarely agreed on anything. They fought all the time and they challenged each other everyday...
Young Noah : [Allie and Noah are fighting]  Don't push me!
[Allie pushes Noah anyway] 
Duke : ...But in spite their differences, they had one important thing in common, they were crazy about each other.
Young Noah : Get in the water.
Young Allie : No! I'm scared.
Young Noah : [yelling]  Get in the water, woman! Get in the water!
Young Allie : [looks at him, puzzled] 
Young Noah : [calmly]  No I'm sorry baby, please just get in.
Young Allie : [hesitates] 
Young Noah : [once his friends start yelling again]  GET IN THE WATER!
Young Noah : You don't know me, but I know me.
Young Allie : Painting.
Young Noah : What?
Young Allie : You asked me, what I do for me...
Young Noah : What now?
Young Allie : I love to paint.
Young Noah : Really?
Young Allie : Mmm-hmm. Most of the time I have all these thoughts bouncin' around in my head... but with a brush in my hand, the world just gets kinda quiet.
Young Noah : [while hanging from the Ferris wheel]  Will you go out with me?
Young Allie : What? No.
Young Noah : No...?
Young Allie : No.
Young Noah : Why not?
Young Allie : I don't know, because I don't want to.
Young Noah : *Ok*, then you leave me no other choice.
Young Allie : [lets go with one hand]  Ahhhh!
Young Noah : I'm gonna ask you one more time. Will you or will you not go out with me? I think my hand's slipping.
Young Allie : Ok, Ok! Fine, I'll go out with you.
Young Noah : No, don't do me any favors.
Young Allie : No. No, I want to.
Young Noah : Say it.
Young Allie : I wanna go out with you.
Young Noah : Say it again.
Young Allie : *I wanna go out with you*!
Young Noah : All right, all right, we'll go out.
Young Noah : [raising fists in air]  Dad! God... I stammered!
Frank : Stammered, stuttered... what's the difference. You couldn't understand a damn thing he said.
[Allie laughing] 
Frank : Anyway, I got him to read some poetry aloud and pretty soon his stuttering went away.
Young Allie : Well, that's a good idea that poetry.
Frank : Say, how would you like some breakfast? Would you like some breakfast?
Young Allie : Breakfast?
Frank : Yeah!
Young Noah : Dad, it's ten o'clock.
Frank : Well, what's that got to do with it, you can have pancakes any damn time of night you want! Come on in, you want some breakfast?
Young Allie : Sure!
Young Allie : What do ya want?
[asks after he tells her he needs to regain his strength after making love all day] 
Young Noah : Hmmm. I want some... uh... pancakes... and some bacon... and chicken.
Young Noah : I see you got my letters, finally. What are you gonna do, Al?
Young Allie : I don't know.
Young Noah : We're back to that? Are we back there? What about the past couple of days? They happened, you know.
Young Allie : I know that they happened, and they were wonderful. But they were also very irresponsible. I have a fiancé waiting for me at a hotel who's going to be crushed when he finds out what I did.
Young Noah : So you make love to me, and go back to your husband. Was that your plan? Was that a test I didn't pass?
Young Allie : No, I made a promise to a man. He gave me a ring and I gave him my word.
Young Noah : And your word is shot to hell now, don't ya think?
Young Allie : I don't know. I'll find out when I talk to him.
Young Noah : What am I gonna do in New York?
Young Allie : ...Be with me.
Young Noah : When I see something I like, I gotta... I love it.
Young Noah : You wanna walk with me.
Fin : What are you guys doing? Get in!
Young Allie : Yeah.
Young Noah : We're gonna walk.
Fin : Do you guys love each other?
[Young Noah snickers] 
Fin : Oh I get it, you guys do love each other!
Young Noah : Okay. Goodbye.
Young Noah : You're gonna kill me woman! I need sleep, I need food, to regain my strength!
Young Noah : [humming]  Bum, bum, bum, bum, bum, bum, bum, bum, bum, bum, bum, bum.
Young Allie : [laughing]  You're a terrible singer.
Young Noah : I know.
Young Allie : [laying her head on his shoulder]  But I like this song.
[they continue dancing in the street to I'll Be Seeing You] 
Young Noah : I'm Noah Calhoun.
Young Allie : So?
Young Noah : So it's really nice to meet you.
Edmond : Allie, who is this guy?
Young Allie : I don't know, Noah Calhoun.
Young Noah : Stop thinking about what everyone wants, stop thinking about what I want, what your parents want! What do *you* want Allie?
Young Noah : I'm not usually like this, I'm sorry.
Young Allie : Oh yes you are.
Young Noah : I could be fun, if you want. I could be pensive, uhh... smart, supersticious, brave? And I, uhh, I can be light on my feet. I could be whatever you want. You just tell me what you want, and I'm gonna be that for you.
Young Allie : ...You're dumb.
Young Noah : I could be that.
Young Noah : Come on, one date, what's it gonna hurt?
Young Allie : Mmm, I don't think so.
Young Noah : Well what can I do to change your mind?
Young Noah : You need to learn how to trust.
Young Noah : [to Martha]  You know I want to give you everything you want. But I can't. It's broken.
Young Noah : It's not about keeping your promises, and it's not about following your heart. It's about security.
Young Noah : If you're a bird I'm a bird.
Young Noah : [at the Carnival]  Who's that girl with Sara?
Fin : Her name is Allie Hamilton. She's here for the summer with her family. Dad's got more money than God.
Young Allie : This place is gigantic!
Young Noah : Yeah, a gigantic piece of crap!
Young Allie : [Noah is about to lie down in the street intersection]  You're gonna get hit.
Young Noah : [Looks around for oncoming cars, there aren't any in sight]  Uhh, by all the cars?
Young Noah : Unbelievable, Unbelievable.
